---
layout: post
title: Iceland
author: jesse.wolcott
---

This year's grand adventure begin with a fairly innocent question. I asked Bryan one night "Where should we go, Puerto Rico, Alaska or Iceland?" He thought about it for a second and said "Iceland". That was my inclination as well, but I'd have been happy with any of the options. I think self-help books call this "managing up". We approached a family that we are close with (that also has kids Bryan's age) to see if they wanted to undertake this grand adventure with us, and they accepted. Off to the best part: Planning!

The draw for Iceland, for me, is directly off of my bucket list. There is an island north of the main island of Iceland called Grimsey. There is a section in the north of the island where the Arctic cicle intersects, and each year, because of the way the world works for some reason that I didn't catch in Environmental Science in high school, it moves 14 meters out to sea. The Icelandic folks have put a 7 ton concrete ball there, called it "Orbus et Globus". The entire trip was (and I said this to one of the other families kids) to go stand next to a big ball. There was a minor complication, mostly that we had to get to the top of the island faster than would have normally been feasible. Given my history, I'm not sure I would have repeated this part. I'll catalog the trip, if nothing other than for myself, if not posterity.

## Friday, July 19 - Baltimore

BWI airport for an 8:30PM flight. My kid has never flown with me, and he doesn't know that I'm awful to fly with. Poignantly asking me, when we arrived in Iceland, "Daddy, whats your favorite part of the airport?" to which I replied "Leaving." He lucks out and gets TSA precheck with me. Just 2 weeks before, I went through regular security and had a tremendously bad time getting medical equipment through. The kids ate the bad airport food, and we spent $70 on dinner for very few calories. This would become a theme for the trip.

The kids managed to sleep a bit, and surprisingly, so did I.

## Saturday, July 20 - Travel to Akureyri

We arrived in Keflavik around 5:30 AM Iceland time (2:30 AM to the kids). No jetway, staircase down to bus, bus to terminal. I told Bryan "If you thought I was no fun in TSA, I'm even less fun in Customs." We managed to grab our luggage, get through Customs, and stop at the convenience store on the way out of the airport. There is a sandwich that is very common there that is essentially italian cold cuts and a taco seasoning mayonnaise sauce, and they call it a "Pepperoni Taco". I grabbed that and two monsters and we headed for the FlyBus. We had pre-purchased the tickets to take us from Keflavik Airport to Reykjavík Airport. Our second flight was from Reykjavík to Akureyri, on the north of the Island. Reykjavík Airport was super tiny, and the plan we took was a propeller plane. When we arrived in Akureyri, the airport had a vibe of "If you're the last one here, turn off the lights". It was nice, definitely clean, fairly new, and essentially deserted. We had previously arranged rental cars, so we meandered over to the other side of the airport, until we found two shipping containers acting as rental offices. Oh well, when in Rome. 

I'd rented a Dacia, which I thought was pretty neat, since it had its lineage in the USSR (and the ill-fated but still widely prevalant in Russia Lada). I was going to be pretty stoked about that, but when I rolled into the office, the clerk told me that I'd be renting a Toyota Landcruiser. You may not know this about me, but the diesel (non-US, rest of the world spec) Toyota Land Cruiser is my dream car. I did that thing where you excitedly walk towards the car but break into a run. I have never driven one before, but 9 days in Iceland did very little (read: nothing) to dissuade me that I should drive a Land Cruiser. 

Iceland is right-hand drive and drive on the right side of the road, so its all pretty easy. We arrived a bit early, and being exhausted and hungry, we started looking around. We found a small festival in a park, and grabbed some beer and pizza while the kids played in the grass. Met a few folks, had a lovely time. We moseyed back to our house, and unpacked. Other family's husband and I went to a grocery store, called Bonus. Their logo is a stupid pig. He grilled up burgers for dinner and then everyone (even the kids) slept for something like 12 hours. 

## Sunday, July 21 - Akureyri

Woke up, had breakfast, packed up the kiddos and went to Goðafoss waterfall, which was pretty stunning. 

## Monday, July 22 - Grimsey? Negative

Today was the big bucket list day, heading to Grimsey on the ferry Sæfari. We arrive to Dalvik on time, approached the ferry and the crew informed us that we wouldn't be going, that the waves were 6 meters high. Huge bummer. 

We found our way to Dimmuborgir, which is a vast lava rock area. There are hiking trails and we took a wrong turn in Albuquerque and turned a 3km walk into a slog of over 5 miles. It sure was pretty. There was a cave that told a legend of the Yule Lads, which are both creepy and endearing at the same time somehow.

We went to an actually insane geothermal spa called [GeoSea](https://www.geosea.is/en). Its a geothermal pool (three different heat levels), a steam room, a bar, right along the coast. It was beautiful, and truly a core memory. 

## Tuesday, July 23 - The Long Road to Grundarfjörður

The next leg of the trip saw us leaving our home in Akureyri and heading West to Grundarfjörður. You may or may not know this about me, but I'm a snack / convenience / fast food nerd. I'm also fairly to moderately addicted to caffeine. The rest stops / gas stations in new countries are always super fun for borderline academic research. When we arrived in Grundarfjörður after about 5 hours of driving (through absolutely barren wastelands out there, sheesh), we stopped at another waterfall in Hellisandur. I threw Bryan across a small stream, and both of us took off up the hill to the top of the waterfall. Everyone finally followed us and we took wonderful pictures at the top.

## Wednesday, July 24 - Grundarfjörður and more

Wednesday saw us head toward Djúpalónssandur, one of Iceland's famous "Black Pebble" beaches. It was really pretty alien. I took my absolutely favorite picture of the trip at this place. Its massive and barren and alien and my wife and kid are so tiny against the black pebbles and the gray sky above. 

We ate dinner at Hótel Búðir. It was very expensive and not very good.

## Thursday, July 25 - Snæfellsjökull National Park

We found our way into Snæfellsjökull National Park and took a cave tour. It is always remarkable to me when I travel elsewhere and they do not have ADA and overly litigious societal expectations. That cave was not safe to US standards. That didn't deter us, of course, but its like having to duck to enter a bathroom in Japan. No wheel chair access is guaranteed. 

On the way back, we stopped at Saxhóll crater, another stunning visage with an incredibly un-American-safety set of steps leading up to it. I had called my mom while walking around the evening before and found a small playground, and we took the kids over there. There was a feral cat that other family's kid was very excited about. She met a nice Icelandic kiddo and they played. What a wild ride. Kiddo's mom had a very friendly dog and came out to see who on earth her daughter was playing with. I don't know if Bryan will remember that experience but it was so cool.

We got back to the place and there is a food cart / shipping container that is selling deep fried hot dogs. I got a hot dog that had a garlic sauce, cheese, and ranch doritos on it. It may have been the best meal we had (certainly for the price). 

## Friday, July 26 - Reykjavík

Packed up and headed to Reykjavík. We found our way through the bustling streets of Reykjavík, saw the rainbow road that leads to the massive Lutheran church, Hallgrímskirkja. There is a statue of Leif Erikson in front of this stunning church, which was also very nice to see. We found a small area for the kids to run around and the adults could grab a drink. 

## Saturday, July 27 - Reykjavík

All of the ad reels leading up to Iceland, including the footage on IcelandAir, showcased this place [Perlan](https://perlan.is/). They bill it as an interactive nature museum, and it was pretty cool. Kept us busy for a few hours. 

On the way back, we stopped at an Icelandic fast food tradition, [Tommy's Burger Joint](https://tommis.is/). It was mid. 

## Sunday, July 28 - Reykjavík

We were all extremely tired by the day we left. We found a library with a kids area in the basement and let the kids go nuts while we chilled out. Went back to the airport in Keflavik, hopped on a plane, and split.

## Notes

Iceland is a beautiful, strange, insane, barren, desolate place. There is so, so much nothing. The people were all very friendly, and honestly beautiful. Everything was insanely expensive. I joked with other family's husband that everything is at least $100. Gas was $9 a gallon. Everything was a lot. 

Understated but important: During the summer, Iceland has 24 hours of sunlight. It gets dusk-ish for about 2 hours in the middle of the night, but thats it. 10 PM seems like daytime. Its jarring to the body to not have that light change. If you wake up at 3 AM to go to the bathroom, your body sees sunlight and thinks its go-time. That was very challenging. Overall, wonderful trip.
